---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Halloween Confession
date: 2013-10-30T16:26:46.000Z
description:
tags:
  - newsletters
---

I am not a fan of Halloween.  Sorry.  But there it is.

To be specific, what I am really not a fan of is the dubious tradition of 'Trick
or Treating'.  I first came across it while living in America in the early
nineties.  My sons were then aged two and four and I simply could not see the
appeal of taking them out in the cold dark streets to knock on the doors of
strangers and ask for sweets.  But I was given little choice.  In the USA
Halloween hype starts many weeks in advance of the date, and is backed by adults
as well as children, commerce and the media, comprising a bombardment so
widespread and intense that there was - and is - simply no avoiding it.  My two
were as excited as every other toddler in the country. Costumes got cobbled
together.  Strangers' doors got knocked on. Copious amounts of 'candy' got
handed out and eaten.  I hid my lack of enthusiasm as best I could, taking
secret consolation from the fact that this was, plainly, an AMERICAN mania.
 Once we were back living in the UK, it would all be done with.

Ha ha ha.

Because sometime around our return to London a couple of years later, Halloween
Hype seemed to make its own parallel journey across the Atlantic.  That meant I
had another TWELVE(ish) YEARS of all the nonsense to endure: The last minute
production of costumes (not my area of creative strength), face-paint
application (I am better at this), door-stepping strangers, and the accumulation
of enough sweets to last a year, let alone a single day.  There was sometimes a
darker side to the nonsense too - toxic rubbish thrown at the house, lovingly
made garden decorations smashed (I was particularly upset about the
pumpkin-lanterns), and marauding gangs of decidedly OLD 'children', intimidating
the much younger enthusiasts, not to mention their parents...

Oh yes, I have done my Halloween Time.

So now I say YA-BOO-SUCKS to the whole Show.  This year there won't be any
hopeful goblins on my doorstep (too-old or otherwise) because all house-lights
visible to the roadside will be turned OFF.  I shall be tucked safely out of
sight in my back room, curled up on the sofa with  a glass of Malbec, the Times
crossword and the telly. I've got a feast of catching up to do - Homeland,
Downton, Boardwalk Empir... second glass of Malbec might even be required. If
the doorbell is rung I won't budge.  I shall feel a tad guilty, (I am not an
automaton), but learning how to please oneself is one of the great consolations
of getting older.
